# A systematic and large-scale exploration of analytical variability in task-fMRI
Youenn Merel Jourdan, Mathieu Acher, Camille Maumet
Poster presentation - Organization for Human Brain Mapping (OHBM) Annual Meeting, Bordeaux, France (2026, June 14–18).

Abstract and poster available at https://inria.hal.science/hal-05525807.

## How to cite?

See [CITATION](CITATION).

# Contents overview

## data

Due to storage space constraints, the statistic maps (pipelines outputs) used in this experiment cannot be directly shared.
HCP subjects ids used in this experiments can be found in `[task]/data_desc.json`. Corresponding data is publicly available through Human Connectome Project Young Adult dataset.

`data` repository contains
- `model.uvl` is the UVL file that model and sample SPM pipelines variants
- `[task]/data_desc.json` contains experiment configuration (subjects, task, etc)
- `[task]/configs` contains the sampled configs
  - See _Sampling configuration_ below to generate your own
- `[task]_1000/dataset.csv` is the sample of 1000 configuration (+ 1 reference) with correlation to average image and to reference
  - See _Running configuration_ and _Post-processing_ below to generate your own
- `[task]_1000/correlations.csv` (zipped) is the pairwise Pearson (+ Spearman, Dice, Jaccard) correlation matrix for all configurations (+ average image)
  - See _Running configuration_ and _Post-processing_ below to generate your own

### Sampling configuration

To generate your own pipeline variants sample, see `README.md` of the https://github.com/Inria-Empenn/fmri_feature_model repository.
Use `ohbm_2026` tag.

### Running configuration

To run sampled configurations on fMRI data, see `README.md` of the https://github.com/Inria-Empenn/fmri-conf-runner repository.
Use `ohbm_2026` tag.

### Post-processing

To run post-processing on pipelines results, see `README.md` of the https://github.com/Inria-Empenn/fmri-conf-runner repository.
Use `ohbm_2026` tag.

## figures

`figures` repository contains the 2 figures found in the abstract and poster

### Reproducing

See `figures/results_full.png`

#### a.

Made using cell "Brain examples with glass brain" in notebook `src/figures.ipynb`. However, the statistic maps used in the figure are not publicly shared.

#### b.

Made using cell "Correlations to reference by clusters and medoids" in notebook `src/figures.ipynb`

#### c.

Made by hand based on graph from `results/[task].pdf` files

## results

`results` contains processed data generated by the analysis notebooks (see `src`)
- `[task]_1000/intermediate/(in)valid_dataset.csv` is the sample of 1000 configuration classified as valid or invalid
  - Run `src\[task]_1000_analysis.ipynb` notebook to generate your own
- `[task]_1000/intermediate/cluster_[n]_t_0.1.csv` is the sample clustered at t=0.1
  - Run `src\[task]_1000_analysis.ipynb` notebook to generate your own
- `[task]_1000/[task].pdf` is the graph generated from the cluster classifier decision tree
  - - Run `src\[task]_1000_analysis.ipynb` notebook to generate your own

## src

`src` repository contains Jupyter notebooks used to process data and generate results
- `[task]_1000_analysis.ipynb` allows you to process data and generate results
- `figures.ipynb` allows you to reproduce figures

